All right.
The next step on our journey is to add a font to our project.
The goal here is to have a very similar look and feel to the actual Google Careers website.
Now, as it turns out, the Google Careers website uses a font called Google Sans, which is proprietary.
That means that it's owned and copyrighted, and we can't actually use it outright unless we ask for
permission or pay some kind of fee.
So instead of using Google Sans, we're going to use a popular alternative which is very similar and
look and feel called open sans.
All right.
And again, since we're not super concerned with having our CSB 100% pixel perfect and 100% identical
to the Google career site, this, I think, is a reasonable compromise.
That's the focus of this course, of course, will always be the view aspects of it.
But that said, I do want the site to actually look as close to the real thing as we can get reasonably.
So we're going to be incorporating this open sans font into our project so you can open up your web
browser and go to font start Google.com.
And here is sort of a search engine for fonts.
And Google makes it very easy to add any of the fonts here to our project.
And of course, I want to search for a font right here called Open Sans.
You're going to see the results here.
And we want this one by Steve Madison, Open Sans.
So go ahead and click on that file.
And it's going to bring you to this page where we see a bunch of styles or variants of this font in
various kind of font weights and like bold italic sizes, etc..
So as we navigate through this page, we're going to click this select the style button to select a
bunch of various variations of this open sans font that we're going to need.
So we can start with like 300 will select the style.
And as soon as I do that, we're going to get this pop up, appear on the right.
We'll come back to that in just a second.
We also want to include regular 400.
So once again, select the style.
We also want to include semi bold 600, select the style and then bold 700 as well.
Select the style.
And what Google is going to give to us on the very right hand side is this link text right here.
We can copy everything we see in this box right here.
Just copy it with command C or control C if you're on a Windows computer.
And then once you have copy of this blob over here, we can head back to our text editor.
So I'm going to bring up vs code and in here we can go to our index that h html file as a reminder.
It is going to be in the public folder in your project.
And if you want to open a file without going through the file explorer, you can press command P on
a mac or I believe, control panel windows to bring up the file search.
And from this input you can type whatever file name you want, find it in your project and open it very
easily.
All right.
That's a quick trip hat trick in the S code.
So right here, let's say right below this link right here on line seven.
I'm just going to paste that content that I copied over from the Google Fonts website.
You can see all it's really doing is providing just a reference to that fonts website and the Google
API that provides it and then specifying right here that we want the open sans font at these weights.
Right.
Google makes it super simple to configure again and we don't have to really worry about what this is
doing behind the scenes.
Technically, the important user facing feature here is that we're now enabling the use of open sans
in our view project that font.
All right.
And as soon as I save this file, I believe prettier wear will automatically format it for us.
Perfect.
That works great.
And there's one more thing we need to do to complete the configuration of the open sans font.
And we're going to need to configure it to work with Tailwind.
And in order to do that, I want to take you back to the Web browser, and I'm going to take you to
a GitHub page for a tailwind.
You don't have to follow me here.
Just keep your eyes peeled for what's on the screen.
So basically, this is the behind the scenes setup or configuration for Tailwind.
As I mentioned, Tailwind gives us access to a whole bunch of CSS classes and styles.
It also gives us access to some default fonts.
So reasonable assumptions for the font family that our HTML elements will have.
See, here in this configuration page, we have this big configuration object with the key of font family.
And then here we have a sans key.
Sans describes a type of font.
I think it means sans means without so sans means without curves, I believe is the distinguishing characteristic
of these fonts versus serif fonts, which do have kind of curvy edges.
It's I'm not really super well versed on typography, but there's basically different categories of
fonts and sans is one of them.
And Serif and mono are other types of fonts, and sans corresponds to an array of strings.
And each one of these strings represents a available font to use in our project and the way it works.
Is whenever our browser renders fonts, it's going to look for the very first one, and if it has that
font available, it's going to use it.
And if it doesn't have it, it's going to fall back to the next font and the next font, etc..
So the reason we have a big list here is because we're accounting for all kinds of different operating
systems like Windows, Mac, Linux.
So at some point you're going to fall back to a reasonable font that should be available to render in
your browser.
So of course, what I want to do is to modify this array to include our open sans font, and I want
to include it at the very beginning here.
So our browser tries to render open sans font first, and now that we have it in our project, it's
going to render it successfully.
And then of course, if for some reason the Google font API is down and we don't have access to the
open sans font at that point, it's reasonable to fall back to our tailwind default fonts.
Right.
So we need to configure this logic in our tailwind config file to kind of inject are open sans font
right here.
All right.
So I'm going to head back to my code editor and let's open up our tailwind DHCP config that JS file,
it's available at the very top level of our project.
All right.
And there's two things I need to do here.
The first is I need to import the default theme from Tailwind.
The default theme is basically a huge JavaScript configuration object.
It's what we just saw in that GitHub page in the browser.
It's a whole bunch of default starting values for various tailwind values such as the font.
So the very top of this file I can use the old school JavaScript import syntax.
I can say const equals default theme.
Equals.
And I'm going to use the built in node required keyword to import a file.
And we're actually going to import from the Tailwind CST Library, which has now been added as a NPM
dependency in our project.
So tailwinds test and then slash default theme.
So that's going to import that JavaScript object and assign it to a constant called default theme.
All right.
So here in this big object that we have in our tail and config file, this is where we can customize
that default theme.
And as a reminder, we don't just want to replace the existing fonts from default theme, we want to
add on.
On top of that, we want to add on Open Sans before all those fonts.
So right here in this extend object, right here under theme, we can do a line break and here we talk
about which tailwind properties we want to extend and what we want to extend here is font family.
So we're going to start with that key or that property.
We want to set that equal to a JavaScript configuration object, another JavaScript plain object.
All right, let's do another line break here.
And then, as you may recall from the GitHub page, there's actually different kinds of font families
inside of Tailwind, and we want to target our sans family.
All right.
So in the GitHub page, we saw that this was equal to an array.
Right.
And whatever values we put in this array right here are going to be the font families that are available
for the SANS category in our project.
So for example, here I can put a string of open sans and make sure to spell it exactly like this.
Capital O, capital S with a space in between the two.
And so now we've enabled our project to use the open sans font that we have just gotten from the Google
Font API and made available in our index that edge HTML file.
But of course we're not done yet because if we do this, we're going to overwrite the tailwind default
sans fonts that we just saw that long array list of strings.
So what I want to do here is use the S6 array spread syntax that we introduced in the previous lesson
to take all of my other fonts which are represented as strings and I want to take them from default
theme and I want to spread them out here as well so they are available as backups if open sans fails
to load for whatever reason.
So right here I'll put a comma and then dot, dot, dot to spread an array out and my array of fonts
is going to be found at default theme which we've imported dot font, family, dot sans.
All right.
So this again is going to be a array of strings that we just saw in our browser.
We're going to spread out those values, but after our open sans font.
So we're going to use this by default.
And if it's not available, then we're going to loop through these fonts to find a backup.
And when I say we, what I really mean is our browser and tailwind and the CAS logic.
All right.
That's all there is to cover.
In this lesson, we installed our open sans font.
We configured it to work with Tailwind.
What I recommend you do now is in your terminal.
If you have your tailwind or your view app rather up and running, I recommend shutting it down.
You can press command or control D to exit and then restart the app by running the command and PM run
serve again.
That just ensures that everything will build from scratch and that should incorporate our newly added
Tailwind library, our newly added font AH configurations and all of those things that we've been adding
over the course of the last couple of lessons.
So rerun, NPM, run, serve from the command line and in the very next lesson we're going to try out
our tailwind styles for the very first time.